Schönbrunn Palace Orchestra has captivated audiences across Europe and now, they are bringing nine of their esteemed ensemble to Africa for the very first time. Fire Island Conservation will premiere ‘Symphony in Sea Major’ in March 2023, when Southern Africa will welcome the sensational chamber ensemble. Schönbrunn Palace Orchestra begins their exclusive concert tour in the vibrant city of Maputo, Mozambique; a performance that sold out within a week. Following a private showing to guests who book the ultra-luxury Kilima Sanctuary villa on the breathtaking coast of Machangulo Nature Reserve on 19th March, the orchestra will travel to venues across South Africa. A variety of events will be available in South Africa, including the wildlife-abundant Kruger National Park, the magical Drakensberg, the historical Karoo and the mother city of Cape Town. One of the Kruger National Park events, at Skukuza Golf Club, quickly sold out, however, there is another Kruger event at Mdluli Safari Lodge on 21st March, with limited tickets still available. Tickets for the performance on the 28th of March at Premier Resort Sani Pass can be upgraded to include an ptional dinner and/or accommodation. KKNK enthusiasts will be delighted to see that there are two performances available to book at this year’s festival, on the 1st and 2nd of April.  The Cape Town leg will see the orchestra gracing the stage at the magnificent Vida Nova Retreat eco-hotel in Hout Bay, on the 4th of April, with various tickets available. These range from picnics on the lawn to VIP options with a private balcony view. The ensemble will then head to Paarl to captivate audiences over two days. The first performance is an exclusive black-tie event with dinner, wine and ballroom dancing, and the second is a family-friendly affair. All profits from concert ticket sales will aid crucial efforts to conserve the earth’s vulnerable creatures. The Kruger performance proceeds will raise funds for SANPark’s Honorary Game Rangers’ Fund and all other proceeds from the tour will be donated to Fire Island Conservation projects. Schönbrunn Palace Orchestra’s managing director, Peter Hosek, said, “With this concert tour for turtles, the musicians and management of the Schönbrunn Palace Orchestra want to point out the importance of nature conservation. Sometimes, we live in our protected bubble in the so-called western world, without any thought about nature, until we find out how beautiful it is and that we all must massively increase our efforts to help protect our environment. That’s why we love this initiative. We can support the Fire Island Conservation projects with what we know best… classical music from Vienna. We want to bring this music to where it has never been performed and spread awareness of this noble project while presenting our beautiful melodies to open hearts for fundraising for this good cause.” Fire Island Conservation administers a number of community and conservation projects with the objective of protecting threatened marine species. Ilha do Fogo, off the coast of Mozambique, is the heart of the conservation efforts. The island provides an essential nesting site for critically endangered hawksbill and endangered green turtles, and offers a safe haven for other vulnerable marine life.  The turtle protection project includes a community-led anti-poaching unit. This is just one of many initiatives established to offer locals in the poverty-stricken Zambezia Province of Mozambique alternative sustenance and earnings, which will empower them to cease poaching. Save wildlife through music: www.tour4turtles.com 