Traffic on the N4 to Komatipoort is at a standstill today, March 3, as truck drivers attempt to make their way to Mozambique via the Lebombo Border. The traffic volumes have disrupted the town’s routes. It reportedly started piling up on Wednesday March 1 and has not cleared since. Some of the truck drivers say they are frustrated with the processes at the border and have been in the queue since Wednesday. Some motorists and taxi drivers say even though this usually happens, this time it has been exacerbated by truck drivers occasionally bumping into one another out of impatience. ALSO READ: Two foreign nationals arrested at Lebombo Border Post for transporting illegal goods “We have to manoeuvre through in order for us to get to work. The truck drivers are not patient with one another and are causing accidents. One happened last night just past the weighbridge and was only cleared this morning, causing even more traffic,” said one taxi operator. Traffic from town has had to be diverted via Marloth Park this morning, as the main entrance from the N4 was entirely blocked.  According to the truck drivers, some of the causes of this massive volume of traffic can be attributed to the customs officials on the ground. “Customs officials often deflate truck tyres during disputes with the drivers. They deflated one this afternoon and that made the slow flow stop completely. We are all at work and we are all frustrated by the standstill. We just need to be a little patient with one another. If they deflate the tyres, that means the driver has to wait for their company to come help and them, and that often takes hours,” said one truck driver. ALSO READ: Two drown in separate rivers in Nkomazi These frustrated road users said this situation needs serious attention from the authorities. The spokesperson for the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison, Moeti Mmusi, said the department is aware of the situation. “Over the years, there has been increase in trucks on the road. Law enforcement officials are working around the clock to ease congestion and bring normality to the situation on the road. The department is also appealing to truck drivers to obey the rules of the road.”