The art world can be very daunting to outsiders with its specialist jargon, incomprehensible ‘artspeak’ and sensational news reports of paintings by international artists selling for millions of dollars. So how does a collector in South Africa who has gathered a small collection of special pieces or inherited a family heirloom, go about valuing their treasured possessions? “Some collectors approach us for an accurate appraisal of their art collection for insurance purposes,” said Wilhelm van Rensburg, senior art specialist at Strauss & Co, Africa’s leading art auction house, “and others want to achieve the best possible price for their item by selling it on auction. And sometimes people are just curious about the origin of an heirloom and what it might be worth even if they have no intention of ever selling it.” The company offers free valuations of artworks and sculptures, in person or online, with no obligation to consign for sale. Strauss & Co has a team of specialists who are experts in their field, and it also draws on a wide network of conservators, academics and technical experts, both locally and internationally, to determine the value of an item and to find out more about its provenance. Choosing the right auction house to appraise works gives owners peace of mind, knowing that they will receive a market-related assessment of the value of their art collection. And placing works on auction with the appropriate, well-considered estimates increases the likelihood of the work selling. “We offer various appraisal methods to suit everyone’s taste,” continued Van Rensburg. “Some of our clients prefer the convenience of a digital valuation that can be completed through our website, while others enjoy the personal contact of a face-to-face interaction with one of our specialists.” Four ways to value your artwork Are you thinking of selling an artwork or sculpture? Are you looking for an accurate estimate for insurance purposes? Strauss & Co offers free, no-obligation valuations: 1. Submit your art online:
Visit the company’s website at www.straussart.co.za and complete the online valuation form, upload images of the artwork, and submit. 2. Send email to jhb@straussart.co.za or ct@straussart.co.za:
Include measurements and images of the item in your request for a valuation and a Strauss & Co specialist will get back to you. 3. Submit via the app:
Download the Strauss & Co app from the Apple and Google Play Store on your smart device and follow the instructions to obtain an assessment of the value of your artwork. 4. Attend a valuation day:
The company regularly hosts valuation days at major centres throughout South Africa. Bring us your artwork or collectable item and a Strauss & Co specialist will provide an auction estimate. March White River valuation:
Date: Tuesday March 14
Time: 10:00 – 16:00
Venue: White River Gallery, Shop G9, Casterbridge Lifestyle Centre, cnr Numbi and Hazyview roads, White River
Book an appointment: danel@straussart.co.za | 011 728 8246
Should you require a private art valuation, please email jhb@straussart.co.za. Strauss & Co is currently consigning works for the May virtual live auction taking place in Johannesburg. Remember! Cover all the angles! Take clear, focused photos with your phone or camera to upload online or to the app. Take a photo of the artist’s signature, if there is one, and any numbers or labels on the work, as well as a photo of the back of the work. Knowledge is power (and profit) Submit as much information as possible. When and how did you obtain the item? Do you still have a purchase receipt or invoice? Has the item appeared in a newspaper article or in a book on the artist? Upload all relevant documentation or bring it with you if you have an appointment with an art specialist or are attending a valuation day. Talk by Wilhelm van Rensburg, senior art specialist and head curator at Strauss & Co
Title: From Pierneef to the Present Day
Date: Tuesday March 14
Time: 17:30 for 18:00
Venue: White River Gallery, Shop G9, Casterbridge Lifestyle Centre, cnr Numbi and Hazyview roads, White River
RSVP: Dana MacFarlane on 082 784 6695
www.straussart.co.za
Click this link to view the website. About Strauss & Co | Episode 1: Valuing Art 