Local members of the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) joined the national strike on Monday March 6.
On Wednesday March 8 at 13:30, Nehawu members allegedly broke into Estralita Special School, tore up the school register and intimidated some teachers. One educator’s arm was severely bruised. A video, in possession of Steelburger/Lydenburg News, taken by a teacher hiding in her class, shows the union members entering the school grounds and trashing the offices. The video also shows protesters carrying out some computers.  Non-union teachers have been taking care of the learners who stay in the hostel since Monday. After arriving at the school at 06:30 on that day, the protesters proceeded to the Lydenburg Hospital and several government buildings.
The picketing continued the following day. On Wednesday, only the non-union teachers were present at Estralita. Also read: Mpumalanga water levels stable A parent, who wishes to remain anonymous, told Steelburger/Lydenburg News that the pupils were traumatised.
“The professional staff calmed our children and made sure they were taken care of while being locked inside the school grounds.
“Some of the parents were still arriving at school on Monday morning when the protest started. Their children weren’t allowed to enter the premises by the Nehawu members,” she said.
“We are concerned about the welfare of our kids during these protests. Nehawu goes to the school, shouts, chants, blows whistles and vuvuzelas. They are all aware that the learners at Estralita have special needs. Some of the children don’t understand what is happening.
“Situations like these are very traumatising. Some learners are on the autism spectrum and have Down syndrome, or have foetal alcohol syndrome. This situation can easily lead to meltdowns and seizures. How are we as parents going to assist our vulnerable children and the handful of dedicated staff?” she asked. According to the parents, some teachers are volunteering to cook for the hostel learners and are cleaning the dormitories and kitchens. Most of the pupils stay in the hostel during the week.  After disrupting operations at Estralita on Monday, the Nehawu members marched to the Lydenburg Hospital.
They allegedly chased non-union members out of the buildings. According to witnesses, patients were also blocked from entering the hospital.
One of the patients was waiting in the hospital’s pharmacy with a prescription. A Nehawu member allegedly grabbed her left upper arm and shoved her out the door. Nehawu members demand a 10% wage increase while the government offers 4.7%.
The list of union demands includes calling for vacant posts to be filled, for civil servants to receive housing subsidies, and for their children to receive education bursaries.
The Labour Court of the Department of Public Service and Administration issued an interdict against the Nehawu strike on Monday. The interdict is under appeal by the union. Non-union members were providing services at the Lydenburg Hospital on Wednesday. The Lydenburg SAPS and local security firms were on both scenes to monitor the protests.
Steelburger/Lydenburg News will keep its readers updated as soon as more information becomes available. 