On Tuesday March 7, a star athlete of Lowveld High School fell victim to a stabbing incident during break time. According to a source, who is a friend of the victim and wishes to remain anonymous, some bullying led to this particular incident. They said two boys, both in higher grades, had bullied a Grade Eight learner, who called upon the victim to help him out of the situation. The victim approached the two accused, who allegedly turned on him and pulled out a pair of scissors. Another anonymous source approached Lowvelder and said the victim was allegedly stabbed three times, in the face, back and neck. According to them, the victim sustained serious injuries to his face and had to receive stiches on his back. ALSO READ: Athlete’s career in the balance after stabbing incident in Mbombela school The victim, who is set to compete in the Mpumalanga Athletics Championships this weekend, was not certain whether he would be able to compete following the incident, but his friends informed the paper yesterday, March 10, that he was recovering extremely well and had even visited the school during the day. “He says he is going to compete at this weekend’s event,” one friend said. As for the two boys accused of the stabbing, they have since been suspended, but the majority of the other learners in the school are reportedly fed up with their behaviour, and have since set up a petition to have them permanently expelled. According to this petition, the two individuals have been in the school’s bad books for a number of reasons for at least these past two years, and the majority of them feel that the verdict of a suspension was not enough. According to the victim’s friend, it is rumoured that the two of them will return to school on Tuesday. ALSO READ: Another speedster arrested in Schoemanskloof Several parents have reached out to Lowvelder and shared their concerns. They and the learners are concerned for the learners’ safety. The victim and his parents were not willing to engage with the media at this time. * The identity of the victim is known to Lowvelder, but he cannot be named.