On February 21, the Limpopo MEC for public works, roads and infrastructure, Nkakareng Rakgoale, spearheaded the sodturning ceremony of the steelbridge over the Steelpoort River. The Roads Agency Limpopo (RAL) launched the start of the construction of the new steel bridge on the D2219 and rehabilitation of the old single-lane one, which is expected to start next month. Rakgoale said it has been a long process of negotiations since the start of discussions with the mining companies. “As government, we are excited about the collaboration that has now come to fruition. We call upon all our stakeholders to cooperate, because should this implementation be delayed, there will be a need for additional funding, which might end up stalling the project,” she said. Speaking on behalf of the eight mining partners, Conroy van der Westhuizen said the collaborative effort is part of heeding the call made by the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy for a major infrastructure development in Limpopo, especially in Sekhukhune. He said the bridge plays a pivotal role through facilitation of access of the community during funerals and weddings, and for travelling to and from work and business opportunities. “We will construct this bridge to make travelling possible, to improve the local economic development and enable children to go to school with ease.” Rodgers Monama, the MEC for Limpopo economic development, environment and tourism, said, “The construction of the bridge will bring economic benefits that our people will be able to leverage. This bridge comes at a time when we are about to roll out the Fetakgomo Tubatse Special Economic Zone. We appreciate this monumental gesture by the eight mines and RAL, as it cannot be that we have all this wealth of minerals and not benefit anything from it.” RAL’s chairperson, Matome Ralebipi, said service delivery is not a prerogative of government alone. “We need the private sector to contribute in this regard.” He said the mines’ partnership is highly appreciated, as it will go a long way to uplift the Sekhukhune District’s economy. The steel bridge has become a landmark for the people of Ga-Malekane, and is currently 98 years old. The recent evaluations of the bridge’s structural integrity found it would remain strong for at least the next 10 years. DCM has in the past years invested in educational, infrastructure and health projects in the Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality (FTLM). 