Mr Mpumalanga, Abednigo Mabaso, jetted off to the Philippines and the Mr Tourism World pageant on Wednesday January 25. If early voting is anything to go by, he could return to South Africa with top honours. Mabaso was given a resounding farewell at a special Road to Philippines send-off function hosted by the ABM Foundation (ABMF) and Chery Mbombela on Friday January 20.  The vibrant atmosphere was buoyed by the exciting news that Mabaso leads the way, by far, in online voting for the prestigious title of Mr Tourism World. Currently, Mabaso has garnered 4 431 international votes, way ahead of Mr Canada on 3 326 and Mr Uruguay with 3 092 votes. The 30-year-old from Bushbuckridge is the current holder of the Mr Mpumalanga title. ALSO READ: Manhunt launched for Hazyview CIT gang of 15 The competition takes place from January 27 to February 4. Votes can be cast on the Mister Tourism Mpumalanga’s Facebook and Instagram accounts and voting will remain open until the last day of the week-long event. Mabaso will be representing Mpumalanga as his province of residence, but he will also be representing South Africa on the international stage. He thanked his supporters at the farewell function, saying he is a proud son of Mpumalanga and South Africa.  Mabaso said, “I would like to thank the ABM Foundation for giving me the platform to find the best version of myself. I thank you from the bottom of my heart. Also, I want to express my heartfelt gratitude to all the guests who came to my farewell.” Over the past seven years, ABMF has been striving to improve boys’ lives by focusing its energy on the development and mentoring of young males in Mpumalanga. But it has also been essential in supporting Mabaso in his bid to become Mr Tourism World. ALSO READ: Bushbuckridge at a standstill due to ongoing protest Billy Brown, the co-founder and CEO of Mr Mpumalanga and national director for Mr Tourism World, thanked the office of the HOD of the Mpumalanga Department of Culture, Sports and Recreation, Godfrey Ntombela, the executive manager of Mpumalanga Tourism Parks and Agency, Ntwanano Mtungwa, ABMF representative Adv Vulani Baloyi, and the Consulate of South Africa in the Philippines.  Lending their support, guests Dr Lindi Mokoena, Dr Zipho Mhlongo and Ronni Masilela also wished Mabaso the best of luck. Mr Mpumalanga said, “I would also like to thank the Mister Tourism World South Africa management for this amazing send-off. In such a short space of time you managed to make seamless arrangements for the programme. “Thank you to Chery Motors Mbombela for the warm welcome and for driving me in your luxurious vehicle. I felt extra special, like I am indeed the chosen one.”  As a role model for men from all walks of life, Mabaso has shown that with the right support, even a boy from an outlying rural village in Mpumalanga can attain great heights. This is exactly what the ABMF’s A Boy Child Also Needs Protection programme sets out to achieve. Brown said, “Since 2016, the ABMF’s Mr Mpumalanga project coined the slogan ‘A boy child also needs protection’ because we want to encourage boys and young men to speak up about their feelings. Young men are dying inside because of the pressure society exerts on them. ALSO READ: Barberton sportsman and family fall prey to multiple shootings “Our children need role models, rather than critics. We are very proud of Abednigo because he has achieved this vision and will inspire countless boys and young men to reach their full potential.” Members of the public who are interested in the ABMF’s A Boy Child Also Needs Protection programme and potential sponsorships and partnerships, can contact the ABM Foundation at abmfoundation2@gmail.com.