Alisha Mackintosh, Allergy and Immunity Portfolio Manager at Pharma Dynamics says it’s likely that certain changes in our routine may be to blame. “During the festive season we travel more, eat out-, shop- and party more. We stay up late and are perhaps a little more relaxed about hygiene, which can weaken our immune system and make us more susceptible to viruses and bacteria.” Understanding why we get sick, will help us to avoid the common triggers as we take on 2021. Be wary of: Eating too much sugar. It’s the time of year when many give in to festive season temptations that are often laden with sugar without realising that this weakens white blood cells. The effect can last for several hours after ingesting sugary food or drinks. If you’re consuming sweet things throughout the day it means that your immune system may continuously be operating at a distinct disadvantage. Drinking too much alcohol. New Year’s Eve is synonymous with parties and alcohol, but too much booze can inhibit the body’s ability to fight infection, so rather drink in moderation. Staying up late. Partying till midnight or catching up on Netflix till the wee hours of the night and getting up later in the mornings can trigger migraines. Sticking to healthy sleep habits and getting eight hours of sleep can reduce the frequency of headaches by 29% and the intensity by 40%.  Dirty air conditioners. As the mercury rises during the holidays, the more we’ll be making use of air conditioning units in the car and house to cool down, but if it hasn’t been cleaned regularly, it could be harbouring harmful bacteria that can affect those with compromised immune systems. It’s recommended that air conditioning systems get debugged at least every two years.  Beware of crowds. Holidays mean more crowds no matter where you go and airborne germs thrive in crowded environments, which heightens one’s risk of getting sick. When finding yourself in a high-risk environment, try Nexa Travelshied – a natural nasal spray which coats the nasal membrane, trapping viruses and other airborne allergens to keep you healthy. “Other common illnesses that holidaymakers often pick up include fever, diarrhoea, respiratory infections, giardiasis (infection of the small intestine), skin or soft tissue infections. Proper hygiene practices are of paramount importance and never consume food or water from places where the risk of contamination is high.” “Apart from plasters and Burnshield, your holiday first-aid kit should always include sunscreen, mosquito repellent, antibacterial cream, antihistamines, eye drops, pain medication and medicine to help with stomach cramps and nausea – as these ailments are likely to surface during the holidays,” she advises.