January 7 was a sombre day at Mediclinic Nelspruit, in the hearts of patients, and especially in the home of cardiologist Dr Eamon Maree (67). Maree, who became Mpumalanga’s very first cardiologist in 2003, passed away that day, leaving behind a legacy to be remembered for many years to come. His wife, Hester, sat down with Lowvelder at home and fondly remembered her husband of 43 years. Both of them grew up in Pretoria, where Eamon had attended school and completed his studies. He spent many years working in academic hospitals, Kalafong, Steve Biko (then HF Verwoerd) and Tembisa, and finally opened his first private practice in 1995. In 2001, they spent some time in Saudi Arabia after he was invited there to establish a hospital for cardiology. ALSO READ: PCA brings joy to Rob Ferreira’s paediatric ward and Katoen He came back to assist a colleague whose wife had fallen ill and stayed at that practice for a while before finally coming to Mbombela. “There were so many requests to come here,” Hester said. And, being the first of his kind in the province, he had not even found his feet when he received a diary booked up to six months ahead. “He worked and worked and worked. For the first seven years, he worked alone – he actually was a pioneer. And he lived for his patients and work. He never said no, always did the extra.” One such patient, Roelf van Jaarsveld, said he was shocked and saddened by the news of Dr Maree’s passing. In 2007, Van Jaarsveld’s doctor, Dr Roelf van Heerden, and Dr Maree had seen to it that he got a pacemaker after he had suffered cardiac arrest. From assisting with plans to cover medical costs to nights by his bedside, Eamon’s nature left Van Jaarsveld in awe. “During my time in high care I was amazed to constantly find him at my bedside. ‘Do you ever sleep, Doc?’ I asked him one evening. Because he did not leave his patients, like a mother hen. “I know he saved many, many lives. Thanks, Doc. The Lord gave you gifts to let others live. May you find everlasting peace.” Eamon had been diagnosed with myasthenia gravis, a neurological disease, about four years ago, his wife said. The condition affects the muscles and worsened over the last couple of months. Thankfully, she said, it never affected him in the theatre. “I think the Lord protected him.” Van Jaarsveld is only one of many. Hester said since her husband’s passing, the phone has been ringing non-stop. “My messages are into the hundreds now. Everyone said the most wonderful things about him. People from Pretoria, from school, patients, colleagues…” ALSO READ: Lengthy jail terms for rhino poachers The couple’s daughter, Danya, is a chemical engineer. She received a fellowship to study her doctorate at the University of Massachusetts. One of the final blessings for Hester was the time they spent together towards the end. “She came back on Christmas Eve. So we had a few weeks together before he passed away; that was very special.” Eamon was quite the wine fundi, especially when it came to the chemistry of it. This was something he and his daughter could discuss at length.
“And he loved sport, oh my goodness! Cricket, rugby, tennis – he loved it.” He had a passion, he was a storyteller of note, he was a father, a husband, and a lifesaver to many. As a collection of memories and thanks, Mediclinic Nelspruit gave Hester a book filled with tributes from patients, colleagues and friends, all of which said what an honour it was to have known this brilliant man.  Hester said as a family, they were immensely grateful to everyone who enriched Eamon’s life. “Thank you to all his friends, patients and colleagues, especially the team in the cardiac catheterisation lab.” To watch Eamon’s memorial service, held on January 13, click here: Memorial Service of the Late Dr Eamon Maree           