Most inland schools started their calendar year on Wednesday January 11. In Tubatse, the Grade Ones were welcomed at their respective schools for the first time this week. Most schools such as St Thomas College, Calvin College, Highlands College, Good Hope Christian Care, Laerskool Burgersfort, Steelpoort Academy reported an increase in the number of grade ones.  The kids were dressed in their new uniforms and were happy to be at schools for the first time. According to the various schools’ management, the learners’ first day at school was filled with excitement. The little ones were eager to start the year, while the parents tried to hold back the tears. The schoolteachers and personnel are ready for a fun and educational year ahead. Steelburger/Lydenburg News visited several schools in and around Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality to witness the excitement. Little Theledi Mokgwadi of Steelpoort Academy said, “I am happy to start school, I have new friends and new classmates.” Meanwhile, the Limpopo spokesperson for education, Tidimalo Chuene, confirmed that they had successfully delivered stationery and textbooks to all schools in the province. Limpopo Premier Stan Mathabatha also visited local primary schools in Tubatse such as Mosebu and Riba Schools on January 11. He also visited high schools like Mogolo, Kweledi and Leolo Technical School to check their preparedness for the 2023.  “I am pleased that the schools we visited showed activity, learners were there on time as well as teachers who were ready to start with teaching and learning. This is encouraging on the first day, also to see that learning materials have also been delivered and are being distributed,” said Mathabatha. Mathabatha went on to say: “Our visits as Limpopo government is to monitor those schools with high enrolment and those whose performances required our attention. Our observations are that there are schools that are functioning well and others that require greater support and monitoring.”