Applicants with a keen interest in participating in the The Arts & Culture Trust (ACT) Nyoloha Scholarship Programme (NSP) 2023, should be on the lookout for the open call for applications, which will launch on the ACT website at www.act.org.za in the latter part of January. The ACT Nyoloha Scholarship Programme (ACT NSP) is a partnership between ACT and Nedbank Arts Affinity that is sponsored by Nedbank and Sun International and was launched earlier this year. One successful applicant in each category, such as performing arts and visual or digital arts, will receive a fully paid scholarship* to study at a tertiary or accredited South African arts institution of their choice. The ACT invites applications from young people with matric between the ages of 17 to 25 years who want to study towards a performing, visual or digital arts degree and want to pave their way to a sustainable arts future. The 2023 Nyoloha Programme includes a category for digital arts candidates. Visual and digital arts candidates should prepare to submit their portfolios as specified in the official application criteria while performing arts candidates should prepare to submit two audition videos fitting the criteria. Applicants must not be considered a professional artist or performer and must be registered with a tertiary institution or an accredited institution. To qualify, applicants must have passed matric with a university exemption. Parental or guardian consent and a registration fee are required when applying to audition for a spot on the 2023 programme. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for virtual interviews via Zoom in the early part of next year. ALSO READ: Treeside Private Academy ready to spread its roots in Mbombela The programme comprises of online training and mentorship with industry heavyweights. Participants are required to engage actively and participate in tasks, which will be evaluated monthly using a rating system to choose the 15 programme finalists who will compete in a final performance showcase and visual or digital arts exhibition where the winners in each of the two categories will be revealed. In Sesotho, Nyoloha means ‘rise’, and the ACT NSP is part of the new ACT strategy to educate, uplift and empower those wishing to make a career in the arts and culture sector. By facilitating knowledge-creation opportunities through tertiary education and work experience in the arts industry, graduates are equipped with life and business skills so that they are career-ready and able to contribute to the growth and stimulation of the creative sector. The winner of the 2022 ACT NSP performance arts category, Marang Khwene, encourages all applicants to believe in themselves. “Through all the crippling anxiety, fear, self-doubts – throw yourself in the deep end and know that your own self-belief is what will carry you out. You are powerful beyond anything you can understand, so take the knowledge with you and move,” said Khwene. ALSO READ: SDM appoints new executive mayor “The ACT Nyoloha Programme was a phenomenal experience. Through it I was able to view first-hand the incredible talent and wealth of artists residing in South Africa. I was also able to engage with fellow creatives and gather knowledge that drove me to being a better artist. I also think the programme made me more socially aware of South Africa’s position in the arts world. Overall, I loved the journey and enjoyed the learning experience. I’m extremely fortunate to be a part of the programme and look forward to using what I’ve learnt in my future studies,” said Liam Rose, the winner of the visual arts category 2022. Visit www.act.org.za in January to view the ACT NPS open-call details and start paving the way to a brighter future. The scholarship amount is dependent on the institution of choice and has a limit of R350 000.