In the midst of preparing for an international competition, Throne Msibi, Mpumalanga’s Sportsman of the Year 2022, became a victim of three separate shooting incidents in the space of two months. Msibi, who will be heading to Serbia for the International Mixed Martial Arts Federation World Championships on February 10, said his family was attacked three times by unknown suspects who fired shots at his parents’ house and family business on separate occasions.
He claimed that the incidents have had a negative effect on his personal focus and preparation for the competition. “The first incident occurred at the family business on December 10 when a group of armed men stormed into the business, firing shots and ordering everyone to lie down. They searched everyone inside the building, taking everything they could, robbing clients of money and valuable items before fleeing on foot,” he said. “The second incident occurred at our house on December 31 when gunmen tried to break down the door. Although they fired shots at our house and broke all the windows, no one was hurt during the ordeal.” He also said a gang of men paid them another visit at their home on January 11, again firing shots and demanding that they open the doors and give them money, but they were fortunately unable to gain entry. ALSO READ: Barberton police arrest suspect for attack on flying squad member “The whole situation has traumatised my family and myself. I can barely sleep at night as I can still hear the gunshots. I was supposed to be concentrating on preparing for the competition, but I am struggling. My wish is to relocate to another area, because I do not feel the same at home,” he said. He also said he is not sure if they were attacked by the same group, but suspect this to be the case. ALSO READ: Security guard fatally wounded, two more injured in Hazyview CIT heist “Despite everything, I am still determined to go and represent my province and country in Europe and bring the title home. I am also appealing to members of the public to sponsor my trip, because I still need money for a return ticket and accommodation for the duration of the competition,” he said. Barberton SAPS confirmed it is investigating a business robbery and two home attacks, and urged people with any information that will lead to arrest of the perpetrators to come forward.