The Skukuza Regional Court sentenced Forster Lubisi (43) on Thursday January 26 to an effective 32 years’ direct imprisonment for poaching-related offences. According to the Mpumalanga National Prosecuting Authority’s (NPA), Monica Nyuswa, Lubisi had pleaded guilty and was subsequently convicted of three counts of trespassing, two counts of possession of a prohibited firearm with the serial number removed, possession of ammunition, possession of a dangerous weapon, possession of an unlicensed firearm and the killing of a rhino. Nyuswa said the rangers had arrested Lubisi on three separate occasions in the Kruger National Park, with different accomplices. ALSO READ: Gaping holes left by municipal workers pose serious danger in White River “The first two incidents happened in the Skukuza section,” she said. Nyuswa said the first matter occurred on April 15, 2015. She said the Skukuza rangers were patrolling the section when they heard gunshots. Several of the rangers followed some tracks, which led them to Lubisi and another man, Nelson Ndlovu. They were found in possession of a rifle, ammunition and an axe. The rangers went back in the direction where they had heard the gunshots and found a rhino carcase. Lubisi and Ndlovu were arrested and granted bail. “While on bail, Lubisi continued with his poaching spree. On July 29, 2018, he was found in possession of a hunting rifle and ammunition with another accomplice, Een Sihlangu. On the third occasion, on April 23, 2021, Lubisi illegally entered the park with Sihlangu at the Stolznek Section, where they were found in possession of a hunting rifle, ammunition and three knives. They were subsequently arrested and denied bail.” ALSO READ: Barberton sportsman and family fall prey to multiple shootings Nyuswa said all these cases were joined together, and during the trial, Lubisi had pleaded guilty to all counts, which resulted in a separation of trials. The state prosecutor in the matter, Lot Mgiba, handed in positive DNA results that linked Lubisi with the offence, including a ballistic report that showed the firearm that had been used during the commission was the same one found in his possession. The court sentenced Lubisi to 32 years’ direct imprisonment. The trial against his two co-accused, Sihlangu and Ndlovu, will resume in the same court on February 2. “The NPA is pleased with the sentence imposed on the accused, and hope that it will deter like-minded poachers,” she said