A collared lioness in Marloth Park that recently crossed over from the Kruger National Park is still at large in Block A and is considered extremely dangerous. According to the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency’s carnivore scientist, Gerrie Comacho, another lioness with cubs has also been spotted moving in and out of the area over the past few weeks. She is not collared and could be anywhere. In addition, a leopard has also been seen roaming the town in the last week. Residents and visitors should not walk around at night and should be constantly on the alert for these dangerous predators. Dogs and other pets should be kept indoors. ALSO READ: Lioness puts Marloth Park on high alert After the single lioness crossed into Marloth three weeks ago, she was collared to enable the Carnivore Team and Nkomazi Municipality Rangers of Marloth Park to monitor her movements. She then killed a warthog at a residential property. Comacho said, “If she hasn’t made a kill, we supply animal carcases to ensure she doesn’t go into hunting mode in town and endanger human life.” After her collaring, the lioness was returned to the Kruger, but she crossed back into town two days ago. Comacho said various options are being considered. “There’s no point in darting her and returning her to this south-western side of the park because she’ll just cross over again. ALSO READ: Holiday visitors beware, Marloth lions loom “We are looking to relocate her to the north, but there have been mixed successes with such operations in the past and we’re not yet sure if the Kruger will accept her in the north. “The problem is there is a lot of territorial pressure on Kruger’s lions. There are very few vacant territories for this lioness, except perhaps in the north. She could also break out of the park in the north and cause havoc in communities there.” Comacho said relocation options are also restricted by the TB zone. “The other option would be to euthenise her, though this is obviously the least desirable solution.” If anyone sees lions or leopards in Marloth Park, contact Comacho on 082 353 9097 or Ernest Röhm on 083 626 6309.