Pediatric Care Africa (PCA) will hold its fourth Ride for a Child in February and March. The ride will see participants travelling 7 000km around the country, visiting the most northern, southern, eastern and western points in South Africa accessible by motorcycle. PCA’s founder Dr André Hattingh said the purpose of the charity motorcycle ride is to generate funds for the organisation’s campaign, #HELPMYOP, a bid to raise money for surgeries for children whose parents cannot afford their urgent medical treatment. He said that in some cases the kids do not have parents or legal guardians to pay for their much-needed surgeries. ALSO READ: Stay up to date with load-shedding in Mbombela “We are hoping to assist 45 children with surgeries and 400 with visits to private specialists this year,” said Hattingh. He will be accompanied by a support vehicle that will depart from Pick n Pay in White River Square on February 12 at 09:00. The team will return on Friday March 4 at 13:00. With this being PCA’s fourth ride, Hattingh has already travelled 21 000km on his motorcycle in aid of the cause and if he successfully completes this year’s charity ride, he will have travelled a total distance of 28 000km and been 84 days on the road. PCA was founded in 2017 and to date has handed out the equivalent of over two million meals, and over 5 000 baby packs containing baby milk, food and nappies. The organisation has also assisted almost 6 000 people with free medical treatment and helped just over 1 000 children receive visits to specialists and private doctors. ALSO READ: Parents fight for space in schools Hattingh and his team are appealing to both the public and companies to sponsor R1 for every kilometre he completes. You can find out more via the organisation’s website, www.pediatriccareafrica.org. “We need corporate and individual sponsorships and donations urgently, as without the generosity of companies and individuals, PCA cannot render assistance to people in desperate need. “Ride for a child and save a life,” said Hattingh.