The reigning Mr Mpumalanga, Abednigo Mabaso, will be competing for Mr Tourism World in Philippines, Asia, soon. The momentum is building up as he travels there on January 25 to compete on the international stages, flying the South African flag while putting Mpumalanga on the map. He will be competing from January 27 to February 4. This 30-year-old is from a small dusty village, Mphenyatsatsi in Bushbuckridge. He will compete with models from various countries. He is also a public speaker, entrepreneur and actor. He is the founder and chairperson of Step Up for a Boy Child NPC. ALSO READ: Undocumented learners not to be denied admission to Mpumalanga schools Mabaso said it has always been his dream to see himself on an international stage.
“This is a lifetime opportunity for me to showcase our tourism, cultures and diversity on an international level. I want to encourage every young boy with big dreams not to give up in life. It is possible to achieve your dreams and goals no matter where you come from.” As he prepares to travel, Mabaso said he looks forward to learn and grow. “I am not only going to Asia to win the title, I am going there to learn other cultures and to create networks that can assist our future projects in South Africa. I will bring the title of Mr Tourism World not to Mpumalanga only, but to Africa at large.”  Billy Brown, the co-founder and CEO of Mr Mpumalanga and national director for Mr Tourism World SA, said as the Admire Billy Malubana (ABM) Foundation, they need the public to support Mabaso on his journey by voting for him. ALSO READ: IN PHOTOS: First Grade One group for Mbombela Leadership Academy “For the link to vote, visit the Mr Mpumalanga Facebook page. We post it every day, because every person is given one opportunity to vote for free daily. Those who want to vote more than once can still do, although they will pay for it. The support of posting and sharing will also help him a lot, because it will give everyone nationwide the chance to vote. “Mabaso will represent Mpumalanga as his province of residence, but will also stand for South Africa on the international stage.” The ABM Foundation will host a send-off for him on January 20.