As the Class of 2022 prepares to receive its National Senior Certificate examination results on Friday, the Mpumalanga Department of Education has requested parents and guardians to provide support to their children. Private schools received their results on Wednesday January 18. Lowvelder visited Curro Nelspruit, Uplands College and Penryn College to find out how they had fared. According to the department, the levels of anxiety are higher this time around, and as such, parents have a responsibility to calm their children down, reassure them and make them understand that even if they do not get the results they wished for, such lack of progress does not mean the end of the world. ALSO READ: Parents fight for space in schools The MEC for education, Bonakele Majuba, said, “They need to know that there are other options, such as the second chance programme, matric rewrites and so on, available to them to improve their outcomes. Parents need to communicate and ensure that such communication lines are always open. At some point, it might help to get someone else, such as a teacher, relative or family friend, to help reassure them. “Support children in their pursuit of their dreams rather than pressurising them to do it for you as a parent. Whatever the outcome, your child can get help and support. It is a good idea to take time to explore the various options available, and make sure your child makes the best decision. You may also want to talk to a professionally qualified career adviser who could give impartial information, advice and guidance on what choices are available.” ALSO READ: Reduction in road accident fatalities during festive season in Mpumalanga Meanwhile, the Department of Basic Education said the investigation on the recent cheating scandal concerning some schools and Grade 12 learners in Mpumalanga, was concluded. On Monday the department’s spokesperson, Elijah Mhlanga, confirmed that the outcome had been released to Umalusi last Thursday.
“Umalusi will make the announcement on the outcome.”