Then in typical South African style, our resilience and resourcefulness are pushing everyone forward and onwards with the employment of new innovations and technology.
And here we are, ready to take part and enrich your knowledge through the second AmberMacs Macadamia Show on February 2 and 3. “The 2022 event was a first on many levels and certainly raised our profile as a buyer and processor of macadamia nuts,” said owner and CEO Philip Moufarrige. “The various presentations by industry experts provided insight and knowledge, and added value to the event and to the work by many individual farmers in our area. Farmers are isolated. This show introduced them to a wide range of suppliers and vice versa. Interactions were vibrant and insightful and I would say, generated a new impetus within the Mpumalanga macadamia community. It was focused, and it addressed specific challenges that farmers are wrestling with.  “This, of course, is in line with AmberMac’s intention to embrace and enhance the sense of community within our supplied base. Our new web portal is up and running and if you have not visited the site as yet, please do. Our monthly newsletter will follow soon and please share your ideas and stories with us.
“The aim of the 2023 show is not for AmberMacs to expand its supplier base. I have worked with and support our current base as best as we can. Our offer to farmers creates value, and it eliminates, for the farmer, the risks involved with finding a buyer for his crop. We were blessed with an oversupply in the last season, but were fortunate to find markets for it. Indications are that the market is changing, though. Current macadamia production in the world stands at 260 million tonnes.
“We are extremely excited as we are about to launch our own brand of macadamia milk in the UK, California, USA and Germany, and then the SA market. Research and development were done over the past three years. We believe we have a product that is not only cheaper than other similar products on the market, but it also offers a healthier option. And if you don’t love this product, I will eat my hat! We hope to sell a million units per year by the end of 2023. “ “Macadamia oil is another product. Research has proved it to be, possibly, the most nutritious oil ever. These are but some ways of how we intend to diversify and expand our macadamia range of products into the marketplace. Although not a mainstream product as yet, macadamias is a superfood and we are exploring and developing the many possibilities to create a larger footprint.  “Although we may have a couple of challenging years coming up for the industry, I believe macadamias offer a glorious future for all involved within the industry, but we need to educate ourselves about our product and its uses and explore new markets, like India.”
Regarding the 2023 AmberMac Show, Moufarrige said, “We will present more and new exhibitors, and an exciting line-up of experts will speak. There will also be a focus on pest control; how to reduce production costs, solar as an energy source and fertilisation.”  “The show will invigorate your love of farming and, particularly, the possibilities within the industry. So be sure to set aside these dates and join us as we share knowledge and new innovations that will up the stakes on all levels of what we do and what we stand for as farmers.”  We look forward to meeting you all at the expo at the AmberMacs factory in White River on February 4 and 5.    