A fridge, several kitchen appliances, items of furniture and some medication were stolen during a burglary at two businesses in Kiaat Ridge Boulevard on Saturday afternoon, January 14. Netcare Akeso Nelspruit’s temporary office space and Emer-G-Med’s office were targeted during the break-in. Emer-G-Med’s Martin Jeffrey said this was the fourth burglary at the offices in the past two years. ALSO READ: Diving unit releases holiday drowning statistics for Mpumalanga “Some medication, bedding used by our night-shift paramedics and a microwave were stolen from our office,” said Jeffrey. “We think the burglary took place between 14:15 and 17:15, because the office was empty at that time.” Jeffrey said he thought the suspects might have been watching the movements of those in the office, and that the break-in took place during load-shedding. “Unfortunately, the alarm system was down and the backup battery was flat, so we were not alerted to the burglary until we got back to the office and saw some things had been stolen.” ALSO READ:  Traffic is moving on the R40 between Bushbuckridge and Acornhoek Jeffrey said following this most recent break-in, Emer-G-Med was looking to move to a residential area. Meanwhile, Netcare Akeso Nelspruit’s general manager, Maggie Oberholzer, said while the mental health facility itself was fortunately not broken into, there was a petty crime incident at the nearby temporary office space that Netcare Akeso rents. “Fortunately, our patients and staff were in no way affected, as the offices are in a separate building some 500 metres away,” said Oberholzer. “The temporary offices were not in use at the time. Only a few items of furniture and kitchen appliances were stolen, and the matter has been reported to the SAPS.” Nelspruit Police Station’s spokesperson Captain Zandile Gqawa said it is still unknown at this stage how many suspects carried out the break-ins, and that no arrests have yet been made, but that the Kiaat Ridge Boulevard incidents are under investigation. ALSO READ: Reduction in road accident fatalities during festive season in Mpumalanga