As schools are up and running and ready for the new academic year, issues of overcrowding and irate parents are rearing their ugly heads again. For the past week, parents have been gathering in front of various places of learning, and in some cases, resorting to protesting in an attempt to gain admission for their children. Since January 11, schools such as White River Primary were forced to close their gates on various days throughout the week. According to Joe Pelser, the chairperson of safety of AfriForum White River, the situation is currently under control and schooling activities have not been disrupted. Laerskool Laeveld experienced similar scenes, with parents gathering outside its gates. “You are barking up the wrong tree,” said Laerskool Laeveld’s SGB chairperson, Spanner van der Mescht, adding, however, that he understands the parents’ frustration and sympathises with them. For years, the Mpumalanga Department of Education (DoE) has said it is aware of the shortage of space in local schools and has acknowledged the need for new places of learning. During his budget speech in 2019, the MEC for education, Bonakele Majuba, made an announcement in which he stated that R935m had been set aside to be spent predominantly on the expansion of schools in the City of Mbombela. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga’s Class of 2022 will know their fate soon Laerskool Laeveld, Laerskool Nelspruit, Nelspruit Primary and Laerskool Bergland are some of the schools included in the planned expansion project. It is four years later, and between 90% to 100% of construction at some of them has been concluded, with the exception of Laerskool Laeveld.  Building preparations at this school started off well in 2022, but came to a definite halt when the contractor, who was appointed by the Mpumalanga Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport, was sent packing. According to the Department of Public Works’ spokesperson, Bongani Dhlamini, the contractor at Laerskool Laeveld was terminated due to the slow construction pace and poor quality work. “The department has commenced with appointing a new contractor and it is anticipated that work on site will resume by the end of January 2023.” In the meantime, Laeveld’s management has taken it upon itself to try and ease the burden.
“We have converted our lapa into a classroom and are renting land next to the school grounds where two mobile structures are currently serving as temporary classrooms. The school hall, staff room and a garage are also currently being utilised for educational purposes.” Van der Mescht said to ensure that the learners receive quality education, these mentioned spaces needed to be equipped with the necessary material and infrastructure, such as electricity, desks, textbooks and projectors.
“The additional costs are estimated to be up to R950 000, which excludes the appointment of extra teachers and assistants in classrooms by the SGB.” ALSO READ: Protests continue in Bushbuckridge over lack of service delivery According to a statement issued by the school on Tuesday January 17, it wants to work with the DoE to obtain the best solution for the learners and it would like to get a permanent solution, because the temporary plans are no longer helping. In the past week, the Mpumalanga DA and EFF have intervened in the admission crisis, they visited the schools and have been communicating with parents. Lowvelder sent an enquiry to the DoE regarding the concerns raised and the incomplete construction project. By the time of going to press, the DoE had not yet responded.