The violation of spatial laws and the poor infrastructure is cited among the contributing factors that exacerbate the impact of the flood disaster in the province, according to the Mpumalanga Office of the Premier. Premier Refilwe Mtshweni-Tsipane released a statement today, February 19, in which she said that many communities currently reside in low-lying areas within the proximity of rivers and dams, which violates spatial laws that regulate land management. ALSO READ: TRAC makes quick work of rockfalls on N4 “This ultimately leads to waterlogged houses, displacement of families and fatalities. We must intensify the enforcement of municipal by-laws to prevent similar tragedies in the future,” she said. Mtshweni-Tsipane, along with the MEC for agriculture, rural development, land and environmental affairs, Busi Shiba, Ehlanzeni District’s mayor, Jesta Sidell, and several other Mpumalanga delegates visited disaster-stricken areas in Mbombela and Nkomazi on Saturday February 18 to assess the extent of the damage. The delegation visited Tekwane South in Mbombela before travelling to the Mlumati River bridge between Driekoppies and Schoemansdal, the Shongwe Boarding
School in Malalane, and the temporary accommodation shelter at Masibekela in Nkomazi. “The persistent rain is causing massive damages to the roads, bridges, health and school facilities, houses, water plants and farms,” she said. Mtshweni-Tsipane said that since the start of the floods on February 8, the provincial government, in collaboration with local municipalities and non-governmental organisations such as Gift of the Givers and the Red Cross, are delivering relief material, including food, to the disaster-stricken areas. “Efforts are under way to fix water treatment plants for water supply,” she said. She added that the lack of stormwater drains has also led to water flowing onto bridges, and committed that drainage systems would be built. “The biggest task is to restore the infrastructure, which includes the raising of the levels of the bridges.” With more rain predicted this week, Mtshweni-Tsipane warned communities to be on high alert. She further urged parents to keep children away from the rivers and dams to prevent drowning cases. She conveyed her condolences to the bereaved families of the victims who drowned due to the floods.