A sod-turning ceremony was held on the site of the new private hospital on February 20.
The hospital will be built on the corner of the R37 and R555, next to the PPS Filling Station and Thaba Moshate Hotel Casino and Convention Resort. It will trade under the name RH Burgersfort Private Hospital. Guests and stakeholders were part of the ceremony with Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality’s (FTLM) mayor, Eddie Maila, and councillors invited to participate. The ceremony was also blessed by the hospital board members, the FTLM council, the speaker, Cllr Reneilwe Pholoane, and medical doctors from Steelpoort and Burgersfort. Burgersfort Private Hospital is developed through the partnership between Riobex Pty Ltd, local healthcare professional partners, RH Managers, a private equity firm and funding from the Development Bank of South Africa. “The total development cost of the hospital will be R140m, which will create 200 temporary jobs during the construction phase and 150 permanent job opportunities. This will be mainly healthcare workers and nurses. 65% of workers will be locals, depending on the availability of ready skills,” said Dion Mhlaba, CFO at RH Managers.
The hospital will include 100 beds and three theatres, and is expected to open for patients in August 2024. Doctors and specialists who will render their services will soon be secured.  In his speech during the sod-turning ceremony and walkabout, Maila said, “This development is an initiative of which, we at this council are very proud. We are proud because it is not only going to bring medical healthcare closer to our people, but it is also going to create permanent job opportunities and temporary jobs for our communities. “We thank all the partners who have worked tirelessly on this project to ensure that it becomes a success. We are very confident that the project will progress well without any challenges that will hinder its progress.” The new hospital will be a modern facility that intends to provide improved health services to Limpopo and Mpumalanga residents and others, and in particular services including eye care, cancer, TB, HIV, non-communicable diseases and more.