This is Pediatric Care Africa’s (PCA) fourth Ride for a Child charity motorbike ride around South Africa, a distance of 7 000km. The riders will be visiting the most northern, southern, eastern and western points in the country accessible by road bike during this epic trip. The purpose is to generate funds for PCA’s 1 000 Surgeries for 1 000 Children Campaign and to raise awareness for the plight of children who require surgeries and medical treatment, especially in cases where they cannot get help because their parents do not have the means, or in cases of orphans. The organisation hopes to assist 45 children with surgeries and 400 children with visits to private specialist doctors in 2023. ALSO READ: KNP gives detailed update on camps, roads and more Dr André Hattingh, CEO and founder of PCA, accompanied by a support vehicle, departed from White River Square on February 12 and will arrive back there on March 4 at 13:00. Hattingh has already driven 21 000km on his motorbike for sick children. If he successfully completes this year’s charity ride, the distance will come to 28 000km and mean 84 days on the road! The trip will be completed on his trusted Harley-Davidson Road King, and individual guest riders and motorbike clubs across South Africa are invited to join him anywhere on the route to also ride for a child. ALSO READ: Businesses join forces to power traffic lights during load-shedding in Mbombela Regardless of the distance a rider travels on the route around South Africa, he/she will qualify to purchase a Ride for a Child 2023 badge for R50 as part of PCA’s fundraising drive. Sponsorship per kilometre of Hattingh on his Harley will no doubt assist PCA to arrange surgeries and medical treatment for underprivileged children. “We as people and bike riders of South Africa can save countless lives of children who cannot receive adequate surgery or medical treatment, simply because they are poor. “Please support us and our doctor. We always ride for fun and pleasure, now let us ride to save a life,” PCA said.