Some of the camps and roads in the southern part of the Kruger National Park (KNP) remain temporarily closed due to the recent heavy rains. SANParks advised guests not to use any gravel roads, not to open or travel on any roads that have been closed, and not to cross any low-water bridges, as the dangers of being washed away remain high. Rainfall measured across the park this morning, February 10: “Four camps have been badly affected by the floods, namely Lower Sabie, Crocodile Bridge, Biyamiti and Talamati – these are currently inaccessible.  “Guests arriving at Talamati today have been moved to Satara. “Management is in constant communications with the guests in these camps about the situation. No threat or danger to lives has been experienced in the park, and we will try our best to continue to keep all our guests in the affected camps safe,” said KNP’s acting general manager for commercial operations management, Hein Grobler. ALSO SEE: WATCH: Heavy rainfall across Lowveld Technical services, with the assistance of ranger services, have been assessing access and are working to find possible solutions. The situation remains fluid, with more heavy rainfall anticipated today, February 10. The teams will continue with assessments of all affected camps and roads, and updates will be communicated to the affected guests through social media or in person. All access gates into the Kruger National Park are open, except Crocodile Bridge, and guests can enter and exit the south of the park from the open gates. The route directly from Lower Sabie to Skukuza remains inaccessible, while travelling between Satara and Skukuza or Lower Sabie is not possible at this stage. Guests are advised not to take chances and leave any camp without checking with camp management and reception about the status of the roads they plan to travel on. The rain forecast for today remains high – caution should be exercised at all times on the roads. SANParks said it will continue posting updates on the SANParks – Kruger National Park Facebook group as and when information changes. ALSO READ: White River water crisis still ongoing “Guests who have bookings in the four affected camps can contact those camps directly or central reservations for assistance to modify their bookings while the camps remain inaccessible. “Guests who need to postpone any other bookings within the duration of the floods, will be given the option of an immediate date change or credit on their profile to use at a later date. “We appreciate your patience as our loyal guests while we work to keep both guests and staff safe during the floods,” concluded Grobler.