Lovers of classical music and nature have the rare opportunity to experience both on March 20 with a once-only performance of the internationally acclaimed Schönbrunn Palace Orchestra in the Kruger National Park (KNP). The orchestra performs regularly at the Schönbrunn, the former Imperial Summer Palace in Vienna of the Austrian-Hungarian monarchy. This first-of-its-kind concert in the KNP is part of the orchestra’s South African Tour for Conservation in March, leading up to a 2025 world tour celebrating the 100th anniversary of Austrian composer, Johann Strauss. The touring ensemble comprises nine acclaimed musicians, including South African violinist Amora de Swardt and two singers. The concert is a joint project between the Isle of Fire Conservation Tour in southern Africa, the Innibos Lowveld National Arts Festival and the SANParks Honorary Rangers Lowveld Region. Proceeds of the concert go to the SANParks Honorary Rangers for conservation projects in the park. The event is financially supported by First National Bank (FNB). Graeme Cole, FNB’s regional head for commercial banking, said the bank has a responsibility to conserve and protect the environment by actively getting involved in initiatives that are contributing to this cause. “The SANParks Honorary Rangers play an important role in assisting SANParks to achieve their conservation and development objectives, and we are honoured to partner with them in this venture.” ALSO READ: Kruger welcomes new managing executive The Lowveld Region of the SANParks Honorary Rangers is committed to providing support to the KNP, particularly regarding anti-poaching projects, the very successful K9 tracker dog programme, scientific projects, infrastructural projects, public education, litter awareness programmes and adjoining community projects. The sunset classical concert will take place at the Skukuza Golf Club, and tickets cost R950 per person. This cost includes the concert, complimentary wine and a bountiful harvest table. There are also discounted packages available for bulk bookings of 20 or more guests. The premium fold-up chair provided for the concert is a complimentary take-home gift for all attendees. The event is available to the public as well as guests who will be in the park on March 20. Guests must make use of shuttle services to attend. These will be made available from Mbombela (departing at 14:00), Skukuza Rest Camp (16:00), Pretoriuskop (15:00) and the Kruger Gate Hotel (16:00). Tickets for the concert and shuttle services are available on Quicket. Enquiries: lowveldfundraising@honoraryrangers.org.