The 40 learners who attended are in Grade Seven at Mpilonhle Primary School. This Ramsar site provides protection for more than 150 wetlands, as well as numerous rare and endangered species of fauna and flora. Four rivers rise in the reserve. The Mpumalanga Wetland Forum thanked all who helped make this day a success, including Patrick Serakwana and the reserve staff of Verloren Valei, and Thangasi Environmental Services. The outing was held to commemorate World Wetlands Day. Every year on February 2, this day raises awareness about wetlands and the important ecological roles they play. The theme for 2023 was “It’s time for wetland restoration”. Wetlands remove toxic substances and sediment from water, while also improving downstream water quality and the overall health of communities. They are also an important habitat for several breeding bird species. Migratory waterfowl use wetlands as resting places, feeding grounds, breeding grounds and nesting grounds. These wetlands not only play an important role in the ecosystem, but can also create much-needed job opportunities through the tourism sector and rehabilitation projects. These programmes include Working for Wetlands 2021 and 20 Years of Wetland Restoration in South Africa, and projects by the Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment (DFFE). André Beetge of the DFFE welcomed everybody and informed the learners why World Wetlands Day is celebrated. Verloren Valei’s manager, Patrick Serakwana, and cluster manager of the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency, Balungile Bhengu, provided an introduction to the reserve itself and why it is so important. Brochures sponsored by the South African National Biodiversity Institute were handed out, along with water bottled at Verloren Valei. The learners were then taken into the field to learn more about wetlands. Hannes Marais, chairperson of the Mpumalanga Wetland Forum, showed the learners different wetland types, and some of the plants that occur in wetlands in Verloren Valei. Amu Nkuna of Working for Wetlands then explained the different methods used to restore wetlands. Bradley Gibbons of the Endangered Wildlife Trust spoke about the importance of conserving wetlands to protect endangered species. Gerrit van Ede, chairperson of Friends of Verloren Valei, took the learners on a walk to see some of the many species of wildflowers. The day ended with food and drinks sponsored by Millstream Farm. Because of its environmental importance and fragility, Verloren Valei is a closed reserve. To book a visit, contact Patrick Serakwana on 066 008 2292 or 078 550 0489. The Friends of Verloren Valei arrange guided field trips periodically during the year. Contact them at info@verlorenvalei.org.za or visit their website on www. verlorenvalei.org.za 