The mission was to address the gender gap in the science, technology, engineering and maths fields by celebrating the contributions and achievements of women in science. This year, Riverside CID, in partnership with the Riverside CID Social Investment Foundation and Agricultural Research Council-Tropical and Subtropical Crops, recognised the day by inviting a group of young female learners who are part of local NPO, Sesi Lomkhulu, to explore the phenomenon of agricultural science. The activation aimed to focus on encouraging girls to have a positive mindset towards the subject, as well as to make science more accessible and relatable. On arrival, the pupils were treated to a tour of the facilities, followed by the opportunity to participate in various practical activities that highlighted the function science plays in the agricultural sector. Dr Elliosha Hajar, the acting research team manager for plant breeding, expressed her delight in the opportunity she had to showcase science. “I believe that by empowering girls, we are empowering the next generation of world changers. I am so pleased to be able to be part of a day in which we celebrate the progression of women and girls in this field.” Gary Phillips, the Riverside CSI programme manger, added that the foundation is an advocate for investing in the youth, because it is an agent of change, and indicated that the CSI foundation plans to focus project funding on upskilling and training. “The foundation is committed to facilitating catalysing, sustainable and impacting community welfare and development initiatives. Activations like today are just part of the innovative projects we plan to roll out.” The day concluded with an inspiring chat to happy, inquiring minds. “We hope that this will inspire other corporates to get involved with the Riverside CID Social Investment Foundation in order to be able to give many more learners this hands-on experience,” said Jessica Prim, the marketing co-ordinator of the Riverside CID. Enquiries: Phillips on 013 757 0415 or office@riversidecsifoundation.co.za.