The DA in TCLM has filed a formal grievance with the speaker, Herns Trower, against the executive mayor, Friddah Nkadimeng. In November, a council resolution was taken that all essential workers would work shifts, which should reduce the excessive overtime claimed by employees. The DA has established that implementing this resolution would see the municipality save half a million monthly. “In addition to this saving, it has come under our attention that there are irregularities with the position of the community service director. It was also passed in council that this position will be given to the current unit manager. After careful consideration and assessment, it was decided in the council that this incumbent will be duly appointed. However, this was not the case. The executive mayor and councillors opted for another candidate,” said Spiros Couvaras, a DA councillor. Also read: N4 open for travel after rockfalls “The council was misled as it was discovered that the psychometric test written by the chosen candidate, the community service director, had already expired by the time it was submitted to the council. The mayor’s blatant disregard for council resolutions and processes continues to cost the municipality millions in revenue and derails service delivery. The DA has since called on the executive mayor to be transparent and disclose the candidate’s academic qualifications, but this request has been met with utmost rejection. This is another example of how the ANC has captured Thaba Chweu, another candidate who is not qualified for a senior position and has been mysteriously appointed,” said Couvaras. Also read: WATCH: Botanical garden in Mbombela amid heavy rainfall Mandla Msibi, the MEC for co-operative governance and traditional affairs, has been informed of the problems at TCLM. “It is now evident that key decisions in this municipality are taken in the ANC regions, where council resolutions are neither respected nor held in high regard. The DA will continue holding the ANC accountable and ensure that their administration abides by the Municipal Structures Act. TCLM had not responded to the above statement from the DA by the time of going to press.