The internationally acclaimed Viennese Schönbrunn Palace Orchestra will be performing in Skukuza in the Kruger National Park on March 20, as well as at Mdluli Safari Lodge on March 21.
The aim of the event is to raise funds for projects of the SANParks Honorary Rangers and Mdluli Conservation and Anti-poaching (MC&AP). The Schönbrunn Palace Orchestra performs regularly at the Schönbrunn Palace, the former Imperial Summer Palace in Vienna of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. These concerts are part of the orchestra’s South African Tour for Conservation in March 2023, leading up to a 2025 World Tour celebrating the 100th anniversary of Austrian composer, Johann Strauss. The orchestra comprises nine acclaimed musicians, including South African violinist, Amora de Swardt, and a soloist, who captivates audiences with her soprano performances. ALSO READ: Kruger welcomes new managing executive The classical concert at Skukuza will take place at Skukuza Golf Club at 17:00 on March 20. Tickets sell for R950 per person and include the concert, complimentary wine and a bountiful harvest table. The premium fold-up chair provided for the concert is a complimentary take-home gift for all concert attendees. The event is open to the public as well as guests who will be in the Kruger National Park on the day. Limited accommodation at Skukuza became available recently due to a conference cancellation, so it advised to book fast. All guests must make use of shuttle services to attend the concert on the golf club. These will be made available from Mbombela (departing at 14:00), Skukuza Rest Camp (16:00), Pretoriuskop (15:00) and the Kruger Gate Hotel (16:00). Tickets for the concert and shuttle services are available from Quicket (https://qkt.io/ForgTP). ALSO READ: Leave temporary road signs where they are! Community safety department warns The concert at Skukuza is financially supported by First National Bank. Graeme Cole, regional head for commercial banking, said that the bank has a responsibility to conserve and protect the environment by actively getting involved in initiatives that are contributing to this cause. “The SANParks Honorary Rangers plays an important role in assisting SANParks to achieve its conservation and development objectives, and we are honoured to partner with them in this venture,” he added.  The concert at Mdluli Safari Lodge on the March 21 takes place against the backdrop of the African bushveld in the beautiful open thatched lounge area of the four-star safari lodge. A delicious dinner will be served in the lodge dining area after the concert. Tickets to the concert include the performance, the dinner and an exclusive shuttle service from Mbombela to Mdluli Safari Lodge (leaving at 15:00) which will take guests to the event in style and return them to Mbombela safely after the show and dinner. Tickets for the concert, dinner and shuttle package can be purchased from Quicket (https://qkt.io/MbwXD) at R1 150 per person. ALSO READ: ocal sport Ninety-year-old swimmer heads to Mbombela for SA Masters There are limited dinner, bed and breakfast packages available for a self-drive option, where guests can enjoy the concert and stay over at the beautiful Mdluli Safari Lodge for the evening (R3 500pp). The accommodation/concert combo package can be booked directly through the lodge https://www.mdlulisafarilodge.co.za/symphony-for-conservation/ The concerts are a joint project between the Isle of Fire Conservation Tour in Southern Africa, the Innibos Lowveld National Arts Festival and the SANParks Honorary Rangers, Lowveld Region. Mdluli Safari Lodge has joined the team to provide their breath-taking safari lodge as venue for the performance on the 21st. *The SANParks Honorary Rangers is a public benefit and non-profit organisation and SANParks’ official volunteer organisation. Its members have a passion for conservation and give freely of their time and resources to raise funds and provide support for conservation projects in South African National Parks. The Lowveld Region of the SANParks Honorary Rangers is committed to providing support to the Kruger National Park, particularly anti-poaching projects, the very successful K9 Unit, scientific projects, infrastructural projects, public education, litter awareness programmes and community projects. Contact lowveldfundraising@honoraryrangers.org or sandra@innibos.co.za for more information on the event, or call Linda on 082 933 1011 or Sandra on 082 853 7885.