The floods the Lowveld, and more specifically the Kruger National Park, are currently experiencing, will surely go down in the history books. How does this year’s devastation compare to that of 2000 and 2012? SANParks’ spokesperson, Isaac Phaahla, said in comparison, the situation in the Kruger National Park (KNP) is far less severe. Nevertheless, the KNP Disaster Management Team has been on flood alert. “We have not seen rivers rise anywhere close to the 2000 flood levels, although some small headwater catchments upstream of the KNP along the escarpment have experienced similar levels. ALSO READ: KNP gives detailed update on camps, roads and more “Rainfall distribution, however, has been more patchy than would arise under cyclonic conditions (as in 2000 and 2012), meaning that entire catchments are not inundated the same way. “That being said, flood peaks have been very rapid, implying significant rainfall intensities in some areas.” In terms of disruptions, however, Phaahla said two experiences can be said to be similar. They compare in terms of access along some of the primary tar routes and dirt roads, as well as some rescues of stranded tourists by the sterling efforts of the teams on the ground. Infrastructure damage, he confirmed, has been limited primarily to road access – culverts and smaller road crossings, and intermittent electricity supplies. No infrastructure damage has occurred to any major areas such as rest camps. Primarily affected areas are in the Marula region, in the south. The situation changes continuously, but the KNP provides updates on its social media pages. At about midday on Wednesday, an update said to expect access to Crocodile Bridge and Lower Sabie to be restricted for the following 48 hours. ALSO READ: Nationwide floods classified as national disaster A proper assessment of the damage will be done once the ground is dry enough and the rain has stopped. An estimate of the costs will also be drawn up then. Phaahla said the recent declaration of a state of disaster will certainly help the Kruger. Once the full costs have been calculated, this will assist the park to recoup certain costs, where appropriate, through disaster relief funds. Complete rainfall figures will only be compiled at the end of the month, but Phaahla said since February 4, Skukuza has had over 300mm, which provides an indication across the park. The south-west of the KNP had more, approaching 400mm, and the north less.