Social media platforms were used to find inspirational stories of young people who were rolling up their sleeves and playing their part to create progress in their area. The winners were announced in January.
Glencore awarded a R20 000 cash prize to Bongani Maphanga of Tukakgomo in Steelpoort. Maphanga started a company called Denice Shoe Repairs, repairing and supplying shoes to learners in the community.
“I am very dedicated. I am doing wonders with this small initiative and look forward to growing, so I can create jobs for others,” said Maphanga. He also polishes shoes and sources new pairs for disadvantaged children. Maphanga offers his service free of charge to local pupils. “Since I started this initiative, learners are excelling in school with shoes that are in good condition. Bad shoes can lead to a lack of concentration in class or even bullying. That’s what inspires me, I don’t want to see pupils going to school with shoes that are in a bad condition when I am available to fix them for free.” he said.  The other winner is Thami Gazide of the Ehlanzeni District Municipality. He started a community gardening project and is planning to impact even more people with the support he received from Glencore. Gazide started the Philanathi Golden Stars, a non-profit organisation, in 2016 with the aim of helping those in his local community dismantle poverty through food security. Illegal dumping sites were turned into community food gardens. Glencore awarded the Philanathi Golden Stars R20 000 in cash prizes. It will support four community food gardens and 36 families. “I think Glencore fell in love with the idea that we are teaching people to sustain themselves. My proudest moment was the day I started lighting these candles, knowing we were changing people’s lives and giving them the hope that they are not alone. Seeing people grow and being able to transform their lives even in the smallest way, inspires me to do even more. Winning this competition means Glencore is ensuring that we are always there to light more candles and I cannot wait to change more lives,” said Gazide. 