Despite many a rumour following a neck injury at Sabie Tube Race, the woman in question was discharged from Rob Ferreira Hospital the same day. The organisers said they appreciate the opportunity to clarify the use of the helicopter at the race as they, too, heard many different wild stories afterwards. Head organiser Walter Serfontein gave a quick summary of their safety protocols in place, exactly for an incident like this. ALSO READ: Mozambican spitting cobra joins KNP tourist from Down Under in shower “The river is constantly checked and cleaned prior to the tube race for any trees, glass or other debris that might be a safety concern. One day before the event, the police diving unit runs the course to check the water level, river speed and if there are obstacles that are concerns. The race only happens with their approval.” On Friday medical staff and an ambulance were in place to cover the shows. On race day, the whole diving unit was in place, as well as eight medics and four safety kayakers on the water. According to Serfontein, a call came through on Saturday February 4 at about 12:00 stating that a woman had injured her neck. ALSO READ: Fans enjoy full Loufi experience at Mabalel Lodge “Medics and the police reacted with haste and the lady was assessed. They found that the injury was spinal-related and that nothing could be done on-site as it was a sensitive area and scans had to be done.” Due to the location having been in a rough spot and considering the road conditions between Sabie and Mbombela via ambulance, the call was made to bring in a helicopter to avoid the possibility of causing the patient excessive pain and possibly worsen her medical condition. Serfontein said it was with great relief that they could say the woman had been discharged from hospital later that same afternoon. “Other than this incident, we had a sprained ankle and minor cuts and bruises. “There will always be risk involved in an event like this, but we as Round Table truly do our best to make sure everyone enjoys their weekend and to make it as safe as possible.”