The African Amateur Stroke Play Championship started on February 6 at Leopard Creek Country Club in Malalane and concluded February 9. After the opening day of the championships, reigning British Amateur champion, Aldrich Potgieter, from the GolfRSA Proteas held the lead. The 18-year-old Potgieter put on a superb ball-striking display to fire a five under par 67 on Monday. ALSO READ: Widespread rain hits eastern parts of Mpumalanga, more to come His closest challenger, Junior Protea, Fabrizio de Abreu, carded a 68, while two more fellow GolfRSA national squad members, Daniel Bennett and Pascal Gunther, tied for third on three under. England’s Gregor Graham and Morris Schiefner shared fifth on two under, with five players a further stroke back. “It was a slow start on Monday morning, but those two par threes with the water played difficult when the wind picked up,” Potgieter said on Monday. The GolfRSA Proteas started their title defence on the opening day of the 54-hole team competition strongly, chiefly thanks to Potgieter’s 67 and the 69 from new cap, Bennet. Following a second round of 69 on February 7, which featured six birdies, one bogey and a double bogey at the tricky par three seventh hole, Potgieter still enjoyed top spot at eight under par, going into moving day. However, De Abreu was breathing down his neck one shot back. Scotland’s Gregor Graham and Bryanston’s Pascal Gunther were a further two shots behind. Dylan Kayne rounded out the top five with four under. Heading into day three, the South African team held a comfortable lead over their Scottish counterparts, but with three scores out of four to count, the lead was not insurmountable. ALSO READ: Van Wettens Nite Race attracts 500 runners to Mbombela The third day of action was delayed due to rain that caused unplayable conditions. The players managed to get a few swings in on day three before the decision was made to reduce the championship to 36 holes, instead of the planned 54, due to the continuous rain. Team South Africa defended their title and won the team competition by 12 shots with score of 19 under par. GolfRSA’s, Aldrich Potgieter claimed the 2023 African Amateur Stroke Play Champion on Thursday February 9. For all results, visit GolfRSA’s Facebook-page or www.golfrsa.com.